---
permalink: /
title: "BIOGRAPHY"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Welcome to my website! This website showcases all my work and projects.

Here is my [Resume](http://sahiltchaudhary.github.io/files/Resume.pdf)!

I am Sahil T Chaudhary. I am currently pursuing my Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering with specialization in Robotics and Controls from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. I completed my Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical Engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore, India.  I have a passion for Robotics and wish to make a difference and contribute positively to society, and hence aid in the progress of mankind. I am seeking full-time roles in Robotics Controls and Planning.

I am currently working as a Graduate Research Assistant in the Biorobotics Lab at CMU. Here, I have designed a modular payload for RC cars and a Quadruped robot with serviceability in mind. On the software side, I am working on Multi-Agent Planning and Controls for a heterogenous convoy of robots. I have developed a Heterogenous Convoy framework for RC cars and Quadrupeds, and also a Rendezvous framework wherein the robots meet up at their nearest common intersection and go back to their home location as a convoy, all done autonomously. I have also worked on and made improvements to the Local Planner governing the robots.

I have also worked as a Course Assistant for the Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Engineers (24787) course in Carnegie Mellon University's College of Engineering, in which I assisted Professor L. Burak Kara in teaching machine learning and artificial intelligence principles to graduate students. 
My professional experiences also include working at ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) India Limited, as a Graduate Engineer Trainee. I was a part of the Corex Operations team, and was deployed in the Control Room. As a Control Room Operations Engineer, my job was to constantly monitor and identify problems that hindered the smooth running of the plant, and collaborate with a team in a hazardous and critical environment, hence ensuring the productivity of the plant. The two broad areas that I had to monitor were Material Handling and the main Process.

I have worked on several projects during my Master's at CMU. One of them was implementing a Model Preditive Path Integral (MPPI) controller on an RC car platform using C++ and ROS to enable aggressive driving. We compared the performance of the MPPI controller with and existing iLQR controller, and found that the MMPI generates slightly faster paths. I also implemented a obstacle avoidance by utilizing a Costmap generated by a Voxel Grid. Another project I worked on was implementing Point-LiDAR Inertial Odometry (Point-LIO) from scratch. This was done to overcome the drawbacks of frame-based LiDAR processing. We used an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) framework for state estimation. Another project related to Controls was implementing and tuning a PID controller to control a Tesla Model 3 is sim, using Webots. I used Pole Placement to generate an optimal Gain matrix, and analyzed the controllability and stability of the system. I also developed an LQR controller for the same system, as a comparison to the PID controller.

I have also worked on several projects during my Bachelor's too. The most notable of them is the Re-Sizeable Autonomous Cleaning Robot, in which I was the team lead. This was my Final Semester Project. We designed a floor cleaning robot that can adjust its size depending on need, hence improving efficiency and reach. Having developed the CAD model, I was incharge of developing the Functional Prototype and programming the robot.

In terms of skills, I am proficient in programming languages such as C++, Python, and MATLAB, and also tools such as Git and ROS. I am also skilled in software like SolidWorks, Ansys, Fusion 360, and CoppeliaSim (V-REP).

Apart from academics, I was a part of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in my college, by virtue of which I was a part the Republic Day and Independence Day parade contingents in my college. I also participated in a 10km Marathon, which was themed 'Run for Cancer'. Furthermore, I was a part of my high school basketball team. Such activities helped keep my mind and body fit and fine.

My hobbies include travelling, listening to music, watching movies and going for a nice run to maintain my health and fitness. On the technical side of things, I love CAD designing and programming. 

Thank you for taking the time to read my page. I look forward to any opportunities that come my way!
